Hen Cho Han
by Saramir

Basic Rules

Cho Han is a Japanese dice game in which a group of players bet on the outcome 
of a dice roll. The Dealer rolls a pair of dice and keeps them hidden under a 
cup. Players then bet on whether the sum of this dice roll will be Even ("Cho") 
or Odd ("Han"). Once all bets are placed, the dealer reveals the dice. Any 
players who guessed incorrectly lose their bets, while the winning players win 
their bets and split the pot. You lose the game if you run out of money.

Certain special bets can be placed instead of the typical Even/Odd bet. These 
are harder to win but give increasing rewards if successful. These bets are:

- One Die: the player may try to guess a number that will appear on any one of 
the two dice. If correct, they receive a small bonus (+30%) to their normal 
winnings.

- Both Dice: the player may attempt to predict the exact outcome of the dice. 
If successful they receive winnings equal to the entire pot of losing bets.

- Difference: Players may bet on the difference between the two dice. Their 
winnings will be their bet multiplied by a number based on the magnitude 
of the difference. Below is a chart detailing the payouts:
Diff.   Mult.
0       x6
1       x3
2       x4
3       x6
4       x9
5       x18

- Beat the House[TBD]: if a player scores six consecutive wins they are offered the 
chance use their winnings to challenge the House directly. The Dealer will roll 
at most five times; the player will try to guess whether the outcome will be odd
 or even only (no special bets). If correct their winnings double. If they lose 
 they win nothing, including the winnings from the round before this game. The 
 player can opt to end the challenge and keep their winnings at any time.


How to Win

The object of this game is to make enough money to clear the Par before most of 
the other players can. When at least one fifth of the group has met par, the 
game ends and all players who have cleared par that round move onto the next 
match. (Players who make par will be in a their own section of the round 
summary.) The par is increased every match. The game is considered won if the 
player can beat all eight matches. 

Remember: making par in and of itself is no guarantee of victory!


Controls

Every round the player will be prompted to make a guess, followed by a bet. 
Various keywords are acceptable in the prediction phase. A normal guess can be 
"Cho", "Han", "Even" and so on. Initials are also acceptable shortcuts (i.e. 
'e' instead of 'even'). Single numbers from 1 to 6 indicate a One Die guess, 
while two numbers between 1 and 6 (separated by a space) indicate a Both Dice 
guess. Numbers between -5 and 0 indicate a Difference guess. If the game does 
not understand your input you will be prompted to reenter it until something 
valid is entered.
Bets can be any number between 1 and the player's current funds. As with the 
guesses, invalid bets will re-prompt the player.

Other keywords can be used during the guessing phase to do other tasks. "Rules" 
will show this screen, "Quit" will end the game, "See" will show you the state 
of the current round (NPC standings and guesses).